[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Everyone watching has a
certain sound, a note,
a deep tone within us that is
attached to a certain frequency
that establishes our voice.
Well, according
to my guest today,
Stewart Pearce-- he is a
sound healer and the founder
of the Alchemy of Voice.
He says that we
slowly stop feeling
that organic voice within us and
we become disconnected from it.
And that moves us
towards disharmony.
Well, Stewart is
joining us to talk
about how to reconnect
with our true voice sound.
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>STEWART PEARCE: Hi.
>>LISA: Hello.
>>PEARCE: Thank you
so much for having me.
>>LISA: You have
such a rich history,
such an incredible
story of your childhood.
Tell us a little bit about
where you were raised
and how you grew up
and your experiences
as a child that'll lead us
to this whole conversation
about our voice.
Where did you grow up?
>>PEARCE: Wow.
Well, by default, my
parents were royal servants,
and so I was brought up
in the royal household--
>>LISA: You lived there?
>>PEARCE: --in London.
Yes.
So my dad worked for
the Duke of Edinburgh.
He was the equi for
And that meant that
we were in close
proximity to the royal family.
So I think for the first few
years I was living in St.
James's palace and then they
were given a house in St.
James's.
So they were in proxy,
or in close proximity.
>>LISA: What did they
do for the royal palace?
>>PEARCE: Well, Dad
was like a sort of PA
to the Duke of Edinburgh.
And therefore responsible
for all the protocol
and the uniforms and which--
because there were something
like 50 different uniforms
from different regiments
or battalions, or
I can't remember.
I mean, he passed
many, many years ago.
But what was wonderful for
me was that I was brought up
in the beauty and the glory of
what that entire institution
was about, and yet
at the same time
was actually able-- privy to
see that they are human beings,
and therefore there is an
ordinary side about it.
I had some very remarkable
encounters as a child.
>>LISA: Such as?
>>PEARCE: For example,
I often tell this story
because I love it.
The stationery in
Buckingham Palace
was of this particular--
the paper was
of this particular
thickness, which
for a child of six, seven,
eight years of age making paper
airplanes was
absolutely amazing.
But you have these
huge galleries
that have no thermals.
They have no drafts whatsoever.
So of course this
extraordinary stationery
would just go on and
on and on and on.
And I do remember one day,
unbeknownst to my father,
there I was playing with
this paper airplane.
And this voice said,
what are you doing?
And here was Her
Majesty, the Queen.
And I must have been
about six or seven.
And she was extraordinary.
She took me into her
private sitting room.
And you know, one of
the footmen went off
and got some hot orange
juice or something like that.
And I sat there sipping,
having a conversation
with Her Majesty, the Queen,
many, many, many, many, many
years ago.
>>LISA: How old were you?
>>PEARCE: Oh, I
was six or seven.
>>LISA: Do you remember at
all, just the experience?
>>PEARCE: Well, what
I remember-- actually,
what I really
remember was the awe
that I felt, because
awe and majesty
and grandeur, the delight and
the joy of those experiences,
has always been something
that my life has taken me to,
or if you like, that I've
unconsciously sort out.
Which I guess is to do with
why my destiny has led me,
or I have been led,
to serve great people.
>>LISA: You have in such
an extraordinary way.
So when you were raised and
growing up in the palace,
what was your schooling like,
or were there other children
there?
>>PEARCE: No, it
was very isolated.
Very, very, lonely.
And also the area
where these buildings
are situated in the
center of London
is essentially a
non-residential area.
And so there was this very
isolated or alienated quality
of feeling.
But at the same time, I
was bathing in the richness
and the grandeur.
And of course at
that time I was still
really in connection with the
multi-dimensional universe.
That was the key thing.
>>LISA: How did you know that?
>>PEARCE: Well, because I saw
a spirit, because I saw angels,
because I saw
elementals, because I
saw these extraordinary
things, these phenomenon.
>>LISA: Did you tell anyone?
>>PEARCE: Oh, of course.
I thought everybody saw them.
I soon discovered
that was not so.
And although I had an immensely
loving mother who was richly
supportive and always
very understanding,
even though she
didn't say, she was
aware of the possibility
of the preternatural,
the supernatural world--
largely as a result of the fact
that she was brought
up in the countryside.
She was brought up in Norfolk.
And my grandfather--
whose second name
I carry, his name was
John-- was a Norfolk farmer.
He saw spirits.
He whispered horses.
He showed me fairy
rings as a child
because he believed that
he worked in co-creation
with nature, these
extraordinary awarenesses
that we're now
acutely developing
as we see the need for
eco-sustainability, of how
we can actually live in
co-creation with nature.
So he would actually
literally speak
to-- because he was an animal
farmer, not a pastoral farmer--
he would speak to the
vegetables or speak to the corn.
And it would grow.
>>LISA: You said he
showed you fairy rings?
What were those?
>>PEARCE: Where
the fairies danced.
So at 5 o'clock
in the morning, he
would wake me-- shh--
put me on his shoulder,
and carry me off into the
fields as a very young being,
because he knew I saw.
He knew I had a
sensitivity that was acute.
It was a problem
within the family,
because I found it very
difficult to align myself
with academic or with
basic elementary subjects
such as math or reading.
I could not read.
I could not read
before the age of 15.
And that was largely
to do with the fact
that now we know that
I was synesthetic.
So I had this crossover
of the senses,
which means that I saw sound.
I heard but also saw sound.
So in terms of dealing
with written literature,
the word on the printed page,
the printed word on the page,
became a ch-ch-ch-ch.
I could not read.
Much later, around 11
or 12 in a church choir,
I learned to read singing.
I learned to read through the
wave consciousness, do you see?
In other words, I needed not
the staccato nature of "this
is a cat," which is how
a young child would read,
but "this is a cat."
I needed a wave of--
(SINGING) this is a cat.
I needed the wave of
the legato dynamic
of what it was to sing,
what it was to chant,
what it was to use sound
through the breath wave,
and as a result of that found
the middle of my being, which
enabled the static to
become much quieter.
So I was actually
able to download
the substance of,
well, I'm seeing sound,
but actually I'm
also seeing the word.
>>LISA: So reading
music was easy for you?
Not notes, but the
words to a song?
>>PEARCE: Yeah,
because after all,
if you look at Handel's
Messiah or something,
you'll see the note is a
landscape reading very, very
basically-- not moving into
the complexity of musicianship
but just for a young boy reading
and following the landscape.
And it has a waving pattern
because the pitch frequencies
of the notes move in
a certain direction.
So I was cascading
along on this landscape.
But because I was singing, I was
in the breath wave, do you see?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>PEARCE: And then the
words were underneath.
So initially, I was simply aping
what the other boys were doing,
parroting what they were doing.
But then these
words that I knew,
the words that we all
know from the songs
that we sang as children, or
maybe carols at Christmas,
"Away in the Manger," we
automatically go back there.
There's a muscle memory
that takes us there.
So I became very aware
of, ah, this word
is connected with this symbol.
And suddenly the static ceased.
But it was the
wave of the energy,
you see-- that all
energy travels in waves.
>>LISA: And now
we're able to see it
on a computer, where you could
see the sound frequencies.
That's what you see?
>>PEARCE: Yes, yes.
>>LISA: That's what you see.
And so I just wanted to
go back to the fairies,
the fairy circles in
the forest, because I
was on that-- I was going
with you to the forest.
What did you see?
Did you see colors?
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
Literally, you could
see where in long grass,
in a copse of trees where
the fairies would dance.
So you could see, as it
were, not their footprints
because I don't believe
that they have footprints.
But you could actually
see literally the energy
of where they had danced.
There would be an iridescence,
an oscillating degree of force.
And often the trace elements
of their element presence
would be there.
Sometimes we would
arrive when they
were getting to the
end of their dance,
and I would actually
literally see--
I'm sure lots of our
viewers and you and I have
seen pinpricks of light
suddenly with, what was that?
>>LISA: Or even
smoke rising off of--
>>PEARCE: Or smoke rising.
>>LISA: Steam, rising
up off of the-- yeah,
that makes perfect sense.
I caught one of those
on video the other day.
So now how did you then
go from this and being
raised in the palace to being
into your next phase in life,
which was the Shakespeare's
Globe Theatre?
That's quite an
extraordinary leap.
How did you get from there to
Shakespeare's Globe Theatre?
>>PEARCE: Well, learning,
as we've established,
was rather difficult for me.
But all the way
through this, people
said, you have something
about your voice.
There's something
There's a quality, resonance,
a tone, a timbre-- something
unusual about your voice.
And when you tell
stories, it feels
as though-- I heard
this word, magnetic,
that people are drawn into
the quality of the story.
It's not just the
detail within the story.
It's the resonance that
you use to tell the story.
And so I thought, wow.
Well, I can't do this-- meaning
math or academia per se.
I was told constantly that I
was nothing and would always
be nothing.
Please don't get
any violins out.
It's just that's what happened.
Obviously you see somebody that
doesn't believe that today.
I always believed
that I was some thing,
but of course I was very
impacted by the emotionality
of what that was all about,
the caregivers and caretakers
that as a child one respects.
Obviously that's very
impactful-- which meant
that I was immensely insecure.
However there was still this
degree of people saying,
there's something
about your voice.
You ought to become an actor.
I thought, gosh, absolutely.
So when I was in high school,
of course the first thing I did
was to get into school plays.
And hey, people were giving
me more and more approbation.
So of course I announced
that big question of,
so what do you want to
do when you grow up?
You know, the Sunday
lunch with your folks.
Well, I want to be an actor.
My father was totally,
against that and said, well,
there must be something
else you want to do.
And I said, well, you
know, I'd love to teach,
because there is a teacher
within me, evidently.
You know, the history
of my career shows that.
But at that time,
I found that there
was a school, a
college which is part
of the University of London,
where I could actually
train as an actor teacher,
which is exactly what I did.
And then once I gained
the qualification
in graduating from
high school, I
went straight into the
industry as an actor
and really through
the '70s worked
as an actor, which brought
me indeed to this great land.
>>LISA: And to the US.
And going through as an
actor at the Globe Theatre
is quite a dream.
>>PEARCE: Well, I wasn't
at the Globe Theatre.
Remember, the
Shakespeare Globe Theatre
was actually created much later.
That was 20 years later.
This was just me
working as an actor.
And at that time, there were
54 repertory theatres alive
in the United Kingdom.
Unfortunately, as a result
of Thatcherism and government
cutbacks, there are
only two at the moment.
But then, there was a
huge repertory theatre,
so I got lost in learning the
craft of the actor and had
an extraordinary time
learning what it was.
>>LISA: Now, there
was an experience
that happened where
your brother gave you
a phone call that changed the
trajectory of all of this.
Could you share that?
And that kind of
gets us to the voice.
>>PEARCE: Yes, it brings us
to myself as a voice coach
and also developing that that
I switched off from as a child,
because obviously with the
educative process being
challenging, I had spoken
about what I was seeing.
But it was not aligned
with or agreed to,
or I was told simply shut up.
You don't know what
you're talking about.
So I switched off my psyche.
>>LISA: As many of us do.
>>PEARCE: But then much
later-- quite rightly.
And then much later,
growing as an actor,
and being in this great
land and being in a number
of Broadway shows, I had
acquired a great manager,
a great agent, and I'd been
to a very successful casting,
and I got a movie part.
So essentially, what I
was doing after living
for 18 months in New York City,
I was moving to Los Angeles,
because the film
was being made here.
And that's when
the telephone rang.
And it was my brother
saying, what are you doing?
I said, well, I'm packing
to go to Los Angeles.
You need to know that
Mom's got terminal cancer,
and she has three
months to live.
So something very remarkable
happened in that moment.
It was almost as though the
wheel of fortune went clunk.
And I said, but I have a movie.
And then immediately, in that
moment, I realized, yeah,
but I need to go and honor
this extraordinary experience.
So I let that
opportunity go, which
meant that 20th Century Fox
would possibly never employ me
again.
Certainly, my agent and manager
were very, very, very angry
with me.
But I went back to
the United Kingdom
and nursed her for a year.
And then she died.
She passed.
And at that time, that's
when I reconnected
with a very extraordinary
woman called Cicely Berry, who
had been the voice
director of the RSC
for many, many years who called
me out of the blue and said,
well, what are you doing?
So again, the wheel
of fortune went clunk.
And I said, well, I'm
not doing anything.
I've just been being this.
And she said, oh.
What are you going to do?
There was a little bit of an
expletive in there somewhere,
I think.
So I said, well, I don't know.
So she said, well, why don't
you come and teach for me?
You have intuitive
skills as a voice coach.
Well, that surprised me.
But as an actor, obviously
I'd been through the craft.
I'd worked with
her, which is how--
>>LISA: It was just
never phrased that way.
>>PEARCE: It was never
phrased that way.
But a huge door suddenly opened.
So there I was working,
training young actors.
And then there was
the opportunity
of working with a lady
called Margaret Thatcher.
>>LISA: And how did you
cross into that realm
of work with Lady Diana
and Margaret Thatcher
and so many different well-known
celebrities, I would say,
in your area?
How did you get into working
with every single one
of those people?
>>PEARCE: Through the
people that I met.
It was always through
the oral tradition,
through the interconnectivity
of having conversations
with people.
>>LISA: What would
you teach them?
How would you teach them
to really use their voice?
And how did that
change in their career?
How did that change the
way people looked at them?
>>PEARCE: Well, if we deal
with Margaret, for example,
in the beginning of her
career, as the prime minister,
or as the leader of
the Conservative Party,
she had a voice that was
very, very high-pitched,
that had a slightly
patronizing quality about it.
And her diction was
slightly over-precise.
And so everybody felt
that she was rather
dictatorial and condescending.
And so what I did
was to give her
a sense of where her voice
literally sat within the body
from a physiological
point of view.
I allowed her to feel that
her voice could have weight,
could have gravitas,
by tuning her
into what I believe is
extraordinary about we
human beings, which is her
note that you were referring to
at the beginning of
our conversation.
And so I introduced
her to her note.
She went there
immediately, because she
was a very remarkable woman with
an extraordinary intelligence
and knew that this was
a great opportunity
to serve her country in the
way that she defined it.
And of course, the rest
is in history in terms
of what she did with that role.
But at that stage,
she was really
responding to
every single degree
of what her might could be,
so she very easily went there.
It's found largely
through relaxation
and through the breath.
>>LISA: Is that how it's found?
Could you explain--
I mean, for example,
someone like Princess Diana.
She had a different type
of-- maybe a commoner
sound to her voice in
the very beginning.
How did you change that to be
that of a princess-like tone?
How did you do that?
>>PEARCE: Well again,
we weren't necessarily
in search of finding a sound
that was full of status.
What we were engaged
in is finding
her sound that was not actually
a sound that was, as it were,
received.
This is the sort of sound
that I need to make.
It was a sound that she knew was
organically real and authentic
to herself.
So if you see, as a model,
what I was actually doing
is taking the core of the
actor's work, which is
the truth of feeling statement.
That's at the core of
a great actor's work,
that if they're true,
then we believe them.
We say that they're authentic.
If they're not true, then
whether we perceive it or not,
objectively or
subjectively, what we do
is we either watch
it or we leave.
We leave the movie theater or we
leave-- if it's spoken theater,
you know.
>>LISA: Because
it's not believable.
>>PEARCE: Because it
is not believable.
We say that's
rubbish, or something.
So there's a way of
being able to tune us
all into that vibration.
The simple definition of it
is the fact that most of us
are brought up to be cerebral
through the educative
and the socialization process.
So what we do is we
live in our head.
>>LISA: And we're
validated by that.
Yeah.
>>PEARCE: And everything
is validated up here.
And of course, on
this big land mass,
this great nation,
what we tend to do
is also get slightly tight
in the back of the tongue,
and so everything
becomes very nasal.
And so the energy is
very high, like this.
OK, now you can see the
whole of my body has changed.
My voice has changed.
Whereas if I actually
start doing this,
suddenly something
else starts happening.
I've shifted the frequency.
I've released the
back of my tongue.
The throat is open.
The nasality has
disappeared hopefully.
Although, you know, I've been
using my voice very extensively
over the last three days
of this wonderful expo here
in Los Angeles, that my
voice is slightly tired.
But you can still
hear the degree.
>>LISA: Definitely.
And when you did
that nasally sound,
your lips got a lot more energy.
Your jaw had a lot more energy.
>>PEARCE: Uh-huh, and everything
goes there, like that.
And I'm shouting at you, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
And then I can't hear you.
>>PEARCE: Exactly.
Exactly.
And who wants to listen to that?
So it's something
that I call electrical
rather than this I believe,
as we are sitting in our note,
having this wonderful
conversation,
is immensely magnetic.
So we are drawn into the
experience of the information
as currents of sound
glyph, sonic glyph,
on the wave of the breath.
And that's when we
find who we truly are.
We find our note.
We find the song of our soul.
We find the might
and the harmony
of what the experience is to
have the humanity that we have.
>>LISA: And are you able to talk
about Princess Diana at all,
about how you helped her
grow into the princess?
>>PEARCE: Grow into the
being that she became-- well,
if we look at some of the
early documentaries of Diana,
we know that she was constantly
doing this with her head.
And her eyes would look down.
And then she would look
up, and she was often
hiding behind her hair.
So here is an immensely
vulnerable person
who is feeling very
insecure and intimidated
about the public
exposure of her office.
And so what I did was to
actually bring her into focus,
not hiding but to bring her
being, so therefore the whole
of her physiology into focus.
So she didn't hide her eyes.
She was actually
able to be aligned
through the spinal
cord being aligned,
and therefore being
able to do this.
So the eyes are actually still
and not constantly blinking
and looking slightly
anxious or hiding like this
and looking out of
the corner of her eye.
As soon as the body becomes
focused in this way,
as soon as the spine
becomes aligned,
it's much easier to breathe.
Because it's much
easier to breathe,
we take more volume of breath.
As soon as we take
more volume of breath,
our bodies just love oxygen.
And as a result of
that, we literally
relax into the
middle of our beings.
And in no time,
particularly if you
have an individual
such as Diana,
who is unbelievably sensitive
and awakened to her body,
as we saw through
what we now know
is the latter
stages of life-- we
saw how there were many stories
about her going to the gym
once a day and working
out and swimming.
So she was very aware of
her body-- the sensations
and the impulses of body
become much more comfortable
and therefore more relaxed.
As a result of
that, we always drop
into the middle of our
being, so we find our note.
>>LISA: And you helped
her find her note.
>>PEARCE: So I helped
>>LISA: And you do this
for many of us, right?
We could learn right now
how to find our note,
but it's a process
of discovering
that inner-- where
would someone start
to look for that
inner-- and those
are great stories
and examples of how
to find that inner presence.
It's connecting with your inner
being, your wholeness, correct?
Is that what it is?
>>PEARCE: Well, where it starts
is, why are we not living
in the wholeness of our being?
That's where it starts.
It starts in the
stress of our lives,
where we're constantly
giving our power away,
because we feel that we need
to be doing what they want us
to do, which doesn't necessarily
meet the full equanimity of who
we are.
We feel that we need
to be doing that.
So what happens is
we become stressed.
And as a result--
I mean, is this OK?
Is this all right?
Well, I've moved
away fundamentally
from who I am, and I've
become the spoiled child
or I've become the
wounded child or I've
become the defensive person.
I've become all of
those syndromes.
>>LISA: This is why many
of the music artists
do such deep breathing exercises
and voice exercises before they
even start a song, because
it's all about filling
into your being.
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Yeah, so
great artists do that.
Great voice work in singing.
All right, we're going
to take a look here
at a video where
Stewart is talking
about finding your voice.
Take a look.
[HEART BEATING]
>>PEARCE: Hi.
I hope I've disturbed
a really busy day,
because in this
moment of disturbance
you're probably
feeling that there's
a tremendous amount of noise
going on in your being,
particularly in your head.
The frenzy of
doing, doing, doing.
And here, we're going to
take a moment, just to be.
As soon as we go into
this moment of being,
we realized that deep
within our physical presence
is one amazing note.
Isn't it interesting
that when we are born,
we take this great gulp of air?
In other words, we
breathe in Pranayama.
We breathe in the source.
But then we need to do
something with that breath,
so the great roar of
life tumbles out of us.
And then something
happens to us.
As we grow, as we are educated,
as we are socialized, in short,
as we experience
life, it seems that we
stop feeling the organic
instinctual naturalness of what
it is to be within the
celebration of the joy,
of that note, of that power, of
that pure celebration of life.
The alchemy of voice
has two pillars.
The first pillar is
the notion of the fact
that we each have a note,
that deep within us,
within our physical,
within our geometric form,
is a sound that is the sum
total, the iridescence, of what
that being is-- physically,
emotionally, mentally,
and spiritually.
This is the first pillar.
The second pillar is
the notion that often we
do not live that
note, and so we can
bring in the alchemy
of healing to transform
the possibility of not living
that note into the probability
of truly living it.
So that actually,
what happens is
that we move from the
dis-ease or disenchantment
or disillusionment, or
indeed the disharmony,
and we move into enchantment,
we move into harmony,
we move into
orientation, we move
into an expression of our
personal power that is unique
because we're dealing with a
building block of creation.
We're dealing with a
sound that sits deep
within our own beings.
As we look into the
beauty of nature,
here we sit in this
exquisite orchard.
It is the beginning
of May, and we
see the blessed vernal season is
in a blessed state of harmony.
It makes us feel good.
Now, all we're doing
in finding our note
is actually
reflecting the harmony
of this exquisite natural
state within our central being.
And therefore, we
become healthy.
Therefore we become vital.
And therefore, we find
our personal power,
our sovereignty, the
great "I am" presence.
And the life is
never the same again.
>>LISA: OK.
So is it true that once you
find this voice inside of you,
you don't ever go back?
Could that be true?
>>PEARCE: Mm.
>>LISA: No?
>>PEARCE: I'd love to
say yes, I'd love to.
But you know, we're talking
about-- often if we're
very stressed, if we're used
to giving our power away,
if we're habituated into
professional woundology
and it's very unconscious--
so we're constantly
giving our power away--
it's a new sensation.
And if we're used to doing
something which is habituated,
what we need to do is to find
a way of acquiring a new habit,
and that sometimes takes time.
>>LISA: OK.
Well, it's a good
way to learn, though.
>>PEARCE: But if there's
an objective, which
is that we have to fulfill
a role of responsibility,
such as the people that we've
been speaking about-- Anita
Roddick is another person
that I worked with,
finding her voice-- as
indeed, all great actors,
how can an actor be
totally natural in a very
unnatural situation?
Because after all,
if you're standing
in front of 1,500 people
playing a very intimate scene
and maybe some of your
clothes are missing, I mean,
that's slightly
unnatural, isn't it?
Or as we know from film
set, we have two actors
who are playing a scene,
and what we see on screen
are two actors playing a scene.
They've often just
met one another.
>>LISA: They see cameramen.
>>PEARCE: And they're
seeing four cameras,
and the continuity
people, and the producers,
and blah, blah, blah.
So there are 50
people out there.
How do you remain intimate.
And so through the
answer to the question
is that if repetition
is the mother of skill--
so if we keep repeating
sensation that introduces
something which is about
complete empowerment,
complete ease, a sense
of personal confidence,
and a radiation of our own
personal power, it's a delight.
It's an absolute delight.
You know, what pops into my
consciousness is that people
often say, well,
what's it going to feel
like when I've found my note?
I mean, it's a sensation.
It's an experience.
We're dealing with the
ideas, but we're also
living the experiences
you and I speak because we
know what our note is.
I often say, well, what was
it like when you fell in love?
>>LISA: Oh, it's a completely
encompassing feeling.
Yes.
And there's chemicals that
release, and there's-- yes,
absolutely.
So that's what you're saying,
it's the same experience.
>>PEARCE: So we find our power.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
So now how does this
connect you to your work
with the angels in
the angelic realm?
And how did you come
to that experience?
Because you said as a child,
you saw many different beings,
but you were invalidated.
So that got programmed
out for a little while.
How did you reconnect with
that in your experience?
>>PEARCE: Well, it
was fascinating,
and it was so organic.
But as soon as I started
working with people's voices,
I was working with
their inner being
because we do not
live the quality
of the fullness of our voice
because the inner being is
ill at ease.
And so intuitively,
through an empathic state,
I would begin to feel what
that person was experiencing.
And often, if it
were appropriate--
and I would always
ask permission--
I would say, by the
way, intuitively
I feel-- people would say,
how did you know that?
And then I would go
a little bit further
because I would see spirit.
I would see a dear departed
one here and I would say,
well, you know, what
I'm being told here,
your mother is standing there.
They would say, oh my god,
how did you know that?
And I would receive names.
I would receive details
about family experiences.
And so there was no
way that I cognitively
would have known this to.
So I'd really switch back on.
And for the seven years
from 1980 through to '87,
I also saw the conviction
of what this was all about.
And so I trained with mediums
in the United Kingdom,
because I was
fascinated by the fact
that suddenly a window of
my consciousness was opened.
And also, incidentally,
became fascinated
by the poetry of some of
the great writers, who
were all supernatural.
They were all preternatural.
I mean, William Blake
was a great visionary,
just as Shakespeare was.
They were very
extraordinary artists
who had the ability to
define their faculty as being
infinite.
So I gained a reputation
for being a clairvoyant.
So I was doing both things,
working as a voice coach
and also working
as a clairvoyant.
And then came about a
very remarkable happening,
which we now know as the
harmonic convergence, August
15, 16, 17, 1987.
And a friend of mine owned
a crystal store in a town
called Glastonbury in
Somersetshire, which is
the heart chakra of the world.
And so he said,
look, you know, I
need to have somebody
to read for me.
You're really,
really good at this.
Would you come down?
So I went down to
Glastonbury for the weekend.
And there I was reading
for umpteen people
and felt exhausted.
So as all of my teachers have
said, when you feel exhausted,
meditate.
Then you'll plug
back into source,
and everything will be fine.
So I went and sat
on Glastonbury Tor,
which is this very
large hill, which is
known as St. Michael's Mound.
And sitting there,
minding my own business,
surrounded by lots of people,
I had the most extraordinary
experience.
>>LISA: All by yourself, wow.
>>PEARCE: With all these
people, I suddenly heard,
as I was meditating,
these immense sounds,
these celestial harmonics
that came to me.
And I was so surprised,
I opened my eyes.
And in front of me were
these amazing orbs.
And I heard deep within
my consciousness,
we are the angels
of Atlantis, and we
are going to provide
you with teaching
about a temple of sound
healing that you will create,
called the alchemy of voice.
I mean, literally,
within 20 minutes,
I downloaded all of this stuff.
It sounds absurd talking about
it, but that's what happened.
>>LISA: What type of information
did you download at that time?
And was anybody else around you?
>>PEARCE: Oh, there were
thousands of people there.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's a busy area.
>>PEARCE: I mean, I turned to
the guy sitting on my right
and said, are you
seeing what I'm seeing?
And he said, yeah,
yeah, oh yeah, man.
And I realized
that he was stoned,
so obviously he wasn't quite
seeing what I was seeing.
It seemed that although
people's attention were drawn
to these very large
orbs-- I mean,
we're talking about orbs
that are 360 degrees.
They weren't just simply
one-dimensional forms.
They were these 12
different colors--
that people's
attention were drawn,
but it seemed that they
weren't drawn necessarily
to the intelligence that was
being defined through me,
that I was somehow
being able to perceive.
So then, over a process
of the next few years,
they would appear and reappear.
And I would begin to interpret
their teachings, which
are largely about
emotional intelligence,
because angels love
for the sake of love.
We human beings love for
the sake of being loved.
>>LISA: Actually,
there's a video here
where you take us to
the area and show us
from your point of
view what happened.
Let's take a look at this
so you can get a visual.
Take a look.
>>PEARCE: Here I was,
sitting, meditating,
during this very unique
astrological configuration
which we know as the
harmonic convergence, where
most of the world seemed to
have converged on Glastonbury,
because of the nature of it
being a very powerful Earth
energy vortex.
And as I was meditating here, I
heard this extraordinary sound,
and it wasn't the sound
of nature that I hear now.
I heard this very high-pitched
harmonic overtone,
and a light seared
through my body,
right through my heart chakra.
And smarting, I opened my eyes.
And in front of me,
I saw here 12 orbs
that were ringing with their own
harmonic-- extraordinary orbs
of light in the air,
who revealed to me
that they were to be called
the angels of Atlantis.
The interesting thing
about history, of course,
is that when we look into the
embodiment of angel energy,
we always see these beautiful
human beings with wings.
And yet when we dive into,
as I've done-- diving
into the Christian mystics and
the Sufi mystics, that so many
of these people, these
illustrious people who
lived hundreds of
years ago, taught
that angels were orbs of light.
And isn't it fascinating
that today we're
seeing more and more photographs
of elemental energies
or angelic possibilities
as orbs of light
through the insurgence
of digital photography?
The angels of Atlantis for
me appear more and more
over these last 24
years, as though they
are a bridge between
heaven and Earth,
as though they are
the very arch that
is the transept holding
the roof of this temple
of sound healing, known
as the alchemy of voice?
What's also interesting
for me within this,
as I saw these 12
orbs, is that they
asked if I would
bring to the fore
through publishing an oracle-- a
very, very ancient oracle of 44
cards.
And this oracle is an
instrument by which
we can begin to
perceive, whenever we're
feeling in a dilemma, whenever
we're feeling confused,
whenever we're feeling
of our wits' end,
that if we could reach out for
the oracle, the intelligence
that pours through these
rather exquisite icons.
It actually enables us
to really get closer
to the whole nature
of how we can
draw the angels into our lives.
>>LISA: Throughout the
years, that information
that came to you on
the mountain that day,
was it just too much information
to assimilate at that time?
Was it multi-dimensional
information
that came in layers?
Or did you get it all at once?
>>PEARCE: Oh, no,
no, no, no, no.
>>LISA: It took a while, huh?
>>PEARCE: Otherwise I
would have been fried.
We're dealing with immense
beings of plasmic force.
These are extraordinary,
extraordinary beings,
who would appear as
orbs, would appear
as vast pillars of light.
So over a period of time.
>>LISA: What's the difference
between the angelic presence
that you experienced and
maybe that of a lost loved,
or a crossed over
loved one, or someone
who actually had a body?
What's the difference in the
frequency in that experience?
>>PEARCE: Well, in
the presence of angel,
the energy always appears
to be of vast proportion,
where we are dealing
not with human force.
>>LISA: Nothing
to do with human?
OK.
>>PEARCE: So the
sensation of the way
that we reckon this,
that we perceive this,
is of a completely different
order of experience.
It's like walking into a
home that we haven't lived
in for many years which was
immediately highly significant,
and we automatically are taken
back into our emotional memory,
even though the furniture
is still not there
and people have lived
there, et cetera, et cetera.
And then you walk
into a cathedral
or into a stately palace or
into a vast sacred geometric
proportion of a building.
There's a totally
different experience.
And certainly, when
I see spirit that
has been-- for example,
working with spirit that
is caught in fourth
dimension and finding ways
of being able to cut cord
so that spirit can move back
into the light-- because
often these beings
that we refer to as being ghosts
or spirits that keep coming
back and haunt, so
to speak, they're
beings that don't
even know that they've
passed, that the
trauma of their passing
was so severe that
they're caught
within the space-time continuum.
They often appear to
me as light bodies
that are not defined
in the same way
as the extraordinary exclusivity
of what I'm referring
to in relation to these plasmic
transmissions of force that
are angelic.
>>LISA: I love the word that you
say-- the plasmic transmissions
of force.
This is how you describe.
So we see the
pictures of the angels
with the female body and
the wings and so forth.
Where did all that come from?
>>PEARCE: I believe that
they're holographic projections,
do you see.
I believe that they're
actually projections
of human consciousness.
The definition I
am led to believe,
both by the preternatural
assistance of the angels
and that that I've been
taught by scholars,
is that the reason why we
see human beings with wings
is because the early
patriarchs decided
that if you have a human being
with wings, that's an angel.
If you have a human
being over here,
it's a saint or patriarch--
so there's a definition.
And I believe that this is so
resonant in our consciousness
because after all,
we have always
seen angels in
stained glass windows
or we have seen
angels in books, or we
have been taught that
angels are thus--
I mean, human beings with
wings-- through greeting
cards at Christmas and
so on and so forth,
that actually we
intend them to be thus,
which I think is beautiful.
So the light transmission
of the angelic force,
the angelic
identity, as it were,
I don't believe that actually
they are individualized.
I believe that they
are host membranes
that as they download through
light into these three
dimensions, we see them as
individualized capacities.
>>LISA: But I mean
centuries ago--
because these drawings
began in ancient texts
of the same type of angelic
being with the wings.
Do you believe
that that was what
the human mind could
interpret at that time
of those beams of light?
>>PEARCE: Well, because we
were taught to believe it,
so it was conditioned.
And it was conditioned
through the patriarchy
of established temple
or synagogue or church.
>>LISA: Across
religions, though--
many non-denominationally.
I mean, everywhere.
>>PEARCE: Well, I mean,
there aren't human beings
with wings in Hinduism.
>>LISA: There aren't?
>>PEARCE: No, not at all.
And very few Islamic
scholars believe that they're
human beings with wings.
Although, Jibril, or
Gabriel, as we know
brought the Koran to Mohammed,
may his name be praised.
So the angels,
six or seven years
into their tutelage
of me, said, what
do you know about angels, which
sounds a little bit aggressive.
But it was a prompting
of, well, what
do you know about
angels, because all
of the re-information
that I had was received.
So in other words,
they wanted me
to rethink the equation
of what is angelology?
And so they led me to some
of the great libraries
of the world, where I was able
to delve into mystical texts
from way back, way back.
I mean, Hildegard
von Bingen, I mean
Dionysius the Areopagite,
John of the Cross--
the early Christian mystics,
the early Sufi mystics.
And I read that they believe
that angels were orbs of life.
Now, Eben Alexander's
book, "Proof of Heaven,"
which we have all
touched into, also
says that angels appeared
as orbs of light.
So isn't that interesting?
We get this bridge between that
that was ancient and medieval,
or pre-medieval indeed, and
now what we're seeing today,
and the manifestation of
orb photography, which
is just extraordinary.
>>LISA: Now, do you have
to be in a certain state
in order to feel this presence,
because it is so vast?
Or does it come to you through
hits throughout the day?
How do the ages communicate
with you throughout your day?
>>PEARCE: So there's a
central frequency in my being
that I've learned
over the years,
because we're talking about
'87, and now we're 2015.
So how many years is that?
28 years, whatever.
There's a central
frequency within my being
that I've learned where I
can switch on or switch off.
If I'm stressed-- so
I try to not allow
my being to be stressed, but
I'm human, like everybody else,
and so of course
we get stressed.
But if I become stressed, the
frequency closes completely.
So what I do is to practice
what my teachers have given
me, what I believe is really
sensible for all of us, which
is that we find at some point
during our daily toil silent
solitude and stillness, where
we use breath to really tune
into the release of stress
hormones like adrenaline
and cortisol and
bring about serotonin
and bring about the delight
of what we're here for,
which is to feel
good, not to feel bad.
And as a result of that,
automatically, the frequency
aligns.
But having said that, of
course, my glory, my desire,
is to be in remarkable
Earth energy vortices,
such as sacred sanctuaries.
I mean, I go to Egypt
a tremendous amount
and take retreats, large
groups of people to examine.
>>LISA: Is it more intense,
the energy more intense?
>>PEARCE: It's
just extraordinary.
Well, it's like going to some
of the great vortices in Arizona
or in New Mexico, or
other parts of the US.
It's like going to Shasta.
It's like going to Glastonbury.
It's like going to
Avebury Henge, which
is one of the most
powerful Earth energy
centers in the planet.
Around Avebury Henge,
many of the major crop
circles take place,
because it's a way
for extraterrestrial
friends to come in.
It's a magnetic force.
>>LISA: That vortex,
that particular frequency
there in the grids
and how it's aligned.
That makes sense.
So you can call it in
in different areas,
but when you go to those areas,
it's so much more available.
>>PEARCE: It's very acute.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So now the communication
with the angels,
you have here an explanation
of what some of these angels
specifically have
come to their messages
that they deliver to us,
the divine messages that
come through us--
Gabriel and Haniel
and various different angels.
And they're frequencies
to you, right?
>>PEARCE: Mm-hmm.
>>LISA: How did
you get the name?
Did the name align with the
frequency that you feel?
>>PEARCE: Well, firstly
I saw the light.
Actually, no.
To be accurate, firstly
I heard the sound
and then saw the light.
And they taught me that sound
transforms and light informs.
And then through these
pulsations of sound and light,
an image would register in my
consciousness of the orb, which
would then associate
with the intelligence
on, as it were, almost as though
they were downloading a code.
And I would hear the
harmonic of the sound move
into a sonic glyph, or name.
And then through the awareness
that I had of-- well,
Michael has been with me
since I was six years of age.
Michael was identified
because I saw the orb,
but we were standing
outside a building
that my mother told me was
a church at the age of five
or six.
That's a church.
And on the side of the church
was a wrought-iron statue
of a being apparently
called Archangel Michael.
And this being, as it were,
looked at me and said,
I will always be with you.
That's what I
remember experiencing.
And so Michael became
transposed into a reality
that is this orb.
And I felt the qualities,
the archetypal qualities,
of what the action
of this being is
about on this level
of experience.
In other areas of
the cosmos, I daresay
the definitions are
completely different,
because we're not the
only civilization living
in this cosmos, in this galaxy.
Jophiel, the same
action took place.
I would hear the sound
and then see the light
and then feel the
downloading and hear
the quality of the sound.
I would then use my left brain
to go to a library or a book.
It's Jophiel.
And I would look-- I mean, there
are books called dictionary
of angels that many of
my illustrious colleagues
or predecessors have
brought through,
because there is a huge wave
of angelology taking place
at this time.
Great way showers like Diana
Cooper and Doreen Virtue
have brought us so
much information.
And so I would go to
either their literature
and hear what they've
been saying about Jophiel.
Not that I would actually
allow that information
to supersede what
I was experiencing,
but if it was useful,
it would expand.
>>LISA: Then see
if it would match
what you felt-- yes, exactly.
So you came up with some
of the wonderful messages
that they have come to deliver.
And you put it into words.
So we're going to take a
look at this here on video.
>>PEARCE: Gabriel,
the divine messenger,
is present in our lives
to inspire and balance us,
creating harmony and the
pursuit of inner peace.
Hanael, the sacred
warrior, helps
us to connect with our
inner strength and courage,
reminding us to believe in the
power of integrity and hope.
Jophiel, the holy
liberator, helps
us to release all negative
feelings, showing us
that when we let go
of the challenges,
we achieve unlimited
love and joy.
Metatron, the supernal
teacher, shows us
how the merciful might of
our divine intelligence
brings wisdom and the
wonder of miracles.
Michael, the cosmic
leader, enchants
us to transmute our base
feelings into higher purposes.
Therefore we achieve
magical clarity concerning
our leadership potential.
Raphael, the holy
healer, empathetically
leads us to cleansing
and purification
so that we feel the power over
the coursing through our veins.
Raziel, the keeper of
the divine mysteries,
speaks to us through our
dreams and meditative retreats,
bringing us always to
a position of harmony
within our intuition.
Sandalphon is the sacred
guardian of the planet
and of earthly evolution.
So this exquisite
angel guides us
through planetary cycles
that transform us.
Shamael is the divine
guide indicating
how new beginnings
bring us to the changing
wonder of our lives.
Uriel, the divine
companion, shows us
how our consciousness
leads to abundant freedom
through the development of
belief, faith, and trust.
Zadkiel is the
divine comforter who
holds us strongly in the
security of our spirituality,
particularly when life's
challenges are rich.
Zadkiel shows us that
love, joy, and gratitude
allow abundance to flow.
Zaphkiel is the sacred
lover who initiates us
through the great
compression of the source,
leading us to untold
ecstasy concerning
the wonder of surrendering
to the romance of life.
This oracle are like
the signature notes
that we have in our bodies.
They're our own unique sound.
And if you like, this
oracle is the signature note
in this particular form of
these 12 angels of Atlantis.
They're literally waiting
all the time for us
to call upon them, whether
we wish them messages,
whether we wish
guidance, whether we wish
teaching, whether
we wish comfort,
whether we wish to be inspired.
There they are through
these archetypal energies,
waiting for us to
call upon them.
And by the usage of
this oracle, not only
are we tuned into the
wonderment of these angels
but we are also brought into the
symphony of our own signature
note.
And when we find
our signature note,
we find such joy, such
purity, and such power
that all we wish to do is
to live out our sovereignty
full of love and joy.
What else is there?
>>LISA: Can you tell
us about Atlantis,
about what information you've
received or that you know?
>>PEARCE: Why these
beings, these 12 beings
call themselves the
angels of Atlantis?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PEARCE: So two sections.
I'll get to Atlantis in a
moment, the second section.
Firstly, these
beings, I understand,
are very ancient beings
in the intelligence
of this civilization,
planet Earth.
But in Kabbalah,
they're referred to
as being the malakim,
which a Hebrew word,
meaning the royal angels, that
overshadow the Melchizedek.
We hear Melchizedek as one.
I'm taught, they teach me, that
the Melchizedek-- Melchizedek,
meaning the priest kings,
were these 12 archetypal
or patriarchal
figures that today we
refer to as being
the white brotherhood
or the intergalactic council.
>>LISA: I've seen
drawings, photos.
Yes, absolutely.
Interpretations.
>>PEARCE: And then
we ask, well, why 12?
What's this 12 thing?
Because we know seven
as being crucial-- seven
days of the week, seven chakras,
seven notes in the octave,
the seven deadly sins, the
seven wonders of the world.
>>LISA: It's big in the bible.
>>PEARCE: It seems
that we're waking up
to the significance
of number as vibration
and realizing that seven
is the planetary resonance
frequency that is mutating
and changing at this time.
But at the same time,
what we're doing
is we're waking up to the
fact that we are stardust,
we are star beings, we are
spiritual beings in human form,
and therefore we're
beginning to awaken
to universal resonant frequency,
which is what the number 12 is.
It's, as it were,
a ring pass knot
that allows us to
understand what
the permutations of cosmology
is all about in relation
to planetology, of
what is this thing
that we're living on all about?
This great Gaia--
what is it all about?
And so they teach me that
it is an intergalactic or
cosmological experiment
purely and simply
to do with the
element of choice,
because we've been
living for centuries
a substance of duality.
So what would you
like, pain or pleasure?
Guild or innocence?
Imprisonment or freedom?
And that list goes
off into infinity.
What's interesting is that
thought creates reality,
and feeling brings about the
actualization of that force.
We're learning this through
the law of attraction.
So we're beginning to
understand the substance of how
our consciousness works--
that we're from the source
and the source is an infinitely
unfolding creative possibility
full of love and joy,
that we come here
to optimize our creative
energy, full of love and joy.
So how's it going?
>>LISA: It's still
filled with duality.
>>PEARCE: And so we know we
oscillate between these two
degrees, except
at the same time,
we know that those of
us who have been working
on the simplicity of
what this is all about
is that life is getting easier,
because we're becoming more
mature-- physically,
emotionally, mentally,
and spiritually--
about no, the choice
is that although
I'm feeling like,
I'm actually now
going to move myself
into the feeling of
a higher vibration,
because then I'm in
touch with source.
So I give myself time to
alter the degree of energy
within my body physically
and emotionally
so that I feel better.
>>LISA: Do you feel that's
happening quicker now?
>>PEARCE: Oh god, yes.
Absolutely.
>>LISA: And especially now as
opposed to in the '80 when--
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Yes, absolutely.
>>PEARCE: And you
know, if His Holiness,
the Dalai Lama were
here, he would say,
happiness is a decision.
It's not a condition.
So we decide.
We consciously move--
so I'm feeling unhappy.
OK, what are you going to
do about it, wallow in that
or shift?
Now, that sounds
slightly irresponsible,
because unhappiness
is a very real degree,
and I have great
compassion for it.
>>LISA: And the same thing
can be said for disease.
You could shift at any moment.
You could make that decision.
So much easier said
than done, but once
you embody that,
then it becomes as
easy as snapping your fingers.
>>PEARCE: Absolutely.
And we realize that we're
beings of infinite potential.
And then, that's when
Atlantis drops in, do you see?
>>LISA: And we've seen it
done on spontaneous healings
and people who have had
miraculous recoveries.
And it's a shift.
It's a decision.
It's a state.
And it's tapping into a source.
And it happens faster and
faster and more and more
frequently now.
And that makes sense-- of
everything that you've said,
and I love that you agree
that this has intensified.
So these types of
energies and frequencies
are even more readily available
to us now more than ever.
You provide us a way of tapping
into that, and it is possible.
I love it.
>>PEARCE: It's not possible.
It's probable.
>>LISA: Probable.
OK, I like that even better.
>>PEARCE: Yeah.
I mean, we're ceasing it being
as-- we're now really aligned
with our infinite potential.
And in my own
particular experience,
the context of my
mother dying of cancer
was an initiation into
the last 30-odd years
of me working in the celebration
of the divine feminine
in helping women through cancer.
And I would say that 85% of
those women who come to me
say, I've just been
told by my oncologist
that I have terminal
cancer, that they actually
revolutionize the stage of
the disease in their beings,
and they move into
complete remission.
>>LISA: 85%?
>>PEARCE: 85%.
It is a probability
without doubt.
Now, of course, there are
some of us who choose to pass.
And that's a karmic choice.
And we see this in, for
example, the extraordinary work
of John of God, that he is this
immense supernatural healer
that can heal but also allow
the karma to take place.
So we come to Atlantis,
and we recognize
that these beings of light,
these 12 beings of light,
known as the angels
of Atlantis, that they
come with the intelligence
of the echo of Atlantis
because when Atlantis
as a civilization
took place on this planet,
the planet was living through,
as it were, a period
of growth that
was very similar to the
evolutionary strives that
are taking place at
this time, but of course
it was different in terms of
the time aspect of the way
that cosmology works within
this particular realm
of the universe, or
indeed of the cosmos.
Why Atlantis?
Because Atlantis
was a civilization--
it existed on so many
different levels,
because the beings that
lived there were actually
vibrating a 12-helix DNA.
We're operating through
a double helix DNA,
so we have 64 codons of DNA,
but we're only living 20.
So in other words,
we have 44 dormant.
And there's a huge
gestational force that
is taking place at this time.
So they come with the imprint
of the Atlantian consciousness
to say, this is an opportunity.
This is a portal of frequency
for you to all step forward
through.
And what the remembrance of
Atlantis can provide you with
is a template where a
replication can take place--
if you wish it.
>>LISA: I see.
So that's why there
are so many people who
are angel communicators now,
because they come closer
to that frequency
through a portal
or opening or a cosmic shift,
and that they're able to pull
closer into this dimension now.
So we're operating at 20.
They're operating at about
64, and slowly the gap
is going to close.
Beautifully said.
I get it.
Thank you.
>>PEARCE: Thank you so much.
>>LISA: Oh, my gosh.
Thank you so much.
I could go on.
All right, if you like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Stewart Pearce, you
can go to gaiamtv.com,
and you can watch this
interview again and share it
with your friends.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]